---
title: "Is amyloid involved in acute neuroinflammation? A CSF analysis in encephalitis"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/Amyloid_inflammation
excerpt: ''
date: 2021-03-01
venue: 'Alzheimer's  Dementia'
paperurl: ''
citation: Padovani, A., Canale, A., Schiavon, L., Masciocchi, S., Imarisio, A., Risi, B., Bonzi, G., De Giuli, V., Di Luca, M., Ashton, N.J., Blennow, K., Zetterberg, H., Pilotto, A. (in press) Is amyloid involved in acute neuroinflammation? A CSF analysis in encephalitis, in <i>Alzheimer's  Dementia</i>, , . doi: .
---


### Is amyloid involved in acute neuroinflammation? A CSF analysis in encephalitis
in: _Alzheimer's & Dementia_, in press.

Citation: Padovani, A., Canale, A., Schiavon, L., Masciocchi, S., Imarisio, A., Risi, B., Bonzi, G., De Giuli, V., Di Luca, M., 
Ashton, N.J., Blennow, K., Zetterberg, H., Pilotto, A. (in press) Is amyloid involved in acute neuroinflammation? A CSF analysis in encephalitis, in <i>Alzheimer's & Dementia</i>.

Abstract:
Introduction: several investigations argued for a strong relationship between neuroinflammation and amyloid metabolism but it is still unclear whether inflammation exerts a pro-amyloidogenic effect, amplifies the neurotoxic effect of amyloid or is protective. 
Methods: forty-two patients with encephalitis and 18 controls underwent an extended CSF panel of inflammatory, amyloid (Aβ40, 42 and 38, sAPP-α, sAPP-β), glial and neuronal biomarkers. Linear and non-linear correlations between CSF biomarkers were evaluated studying conditional independence relationships.
Results: CSF levels of inflammatory cytokines and neuronal/glial markers were higher in ENC compared with controls, whereas the levels of amyloid-related markers did not differ. Inflammatory markers were not associated with amyloid markers but exhibited a correlation with glial and neuronal markers in conditional independence analysis. 
Discussion: By an extensive CSF biomarkers analysis, this study showed that an acute inflammation  associated with glial activation and neuronal damage does not impact on amyloid homeostasis. 
